# Draft an email to your insurance company using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook is an AI-powered tool that can help Finance professionals save time and effort when drafting custom emails and email replies. With Copilot, you can quickly generate email drafts that Copilot tailors to your specific needs, without having to spend hours writing and editing them. In this training, you use Copilot in Outlook to draft a new email based on a series of user-supplied prompts.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Copilot scenarios in Outlook are only available on a user's primary mailbox. They aren't available on a user's archive mailbox, group mailboxes, or shared and delegate mailboxes that the user has access to. Microsoft only supports Copilot in Outlook on mailboxes hosted on Exchange Online. Additionally, Copilot in Outlook is only supported in Microsoft 365 work or school accounts and Microsoft accounts with specific email domains. It's supported both through Microsoft 365 Copilot with your Microsoft Entra ID account, and Copilot Pro with your MSA account. Any Microsoft account that uses a third-party email provider can still access Outlook, but it can't access Copilot features in Outlook.

### Exercise

As the CFO for Northwind Traders, you want to use Copilot in Outlook to draft an email to the company's health insurance carrier, Humongous Insurance. Your insurance agent recently notified you that Northwind's health insurance premiums would be increasing across the board - more than 9% for individual policies and more than 15% for family policies. This rate of increase is considerably higher than industry averages.

The purpose of this email is twofold:

- To express your concern over the level of increases.
- To request a meeting with the insurance carrier's team to discuss the matter and explore alternative options.

Perform the following steps to create this email:

1. On the **Microsoft 365** home page, select the **Outlook** icon if it appears in the navigation pane. Otherwise, select **Apps** in the navigation pane, and then on the **Apps** page, select **Outlook**. 
1. In **Outlook**, open a **New** email.
1. On the **Message** tab that opens, select **Copilot** in the ribbon. In the drop-down menu that appears, select **Draft**.
1. In the body of the message, a **Copilot** window appears. The prompt field contains the message: **What do you want this email to say**? Below the **What do you want this email to say?** prompt field is a list of **Suggested prompts**. These prompts apply to various email types that you can select from. Rather than using one of these suggested prompt types, you decide to enter the following prompt in the **What do you want this email to say**? field: **I'm the CFO for Northwind Traders. Draft an email to our insurance carrier, Humongous Insurance, expressing my concern for the level of increases in our company's health insurance premiums for the coming year. Request a meeting with the insurance carrier's team to discuss the proposed increases and explore alternative options.**
1. Select the **Generate** button that appears in the prompt field.
1. Scroll through the draft to review it. Below the message, Copilot displays a menu that allows you to **Replace**, **Insert below**, **Discard**, or **Modify** the content in various ways. At this point, you're happy with the message, but you want to see how it would change when using a different tone and length. Scroll down to the bottom of the menu and select **Change Tone**. In the menu that appears, select **Direct**. Doing so triggers Copilot to generate a new draft of the email with a more direct tone.
1. Review the revised draft. At the bottom of the draft window, note how Copilot indicates this draft is "**2 of 2.**" This message means you're looking at the second of two Copilot drafts. You can select the back arrow (<) to go back to the previous Copilot draft, which in this case is the first draft that has a **Formal** tone and a **Long** length. If you generate multiple Copilot drafts, as you do in this exercise, you can use these arrows to go back and forth between drafts to find one that you like. If you find a draft that you want, you can either keep it or apply another option change to that specific draft.
1. Make sure you're on draft **2 of 2**. Note the salutation and complementary close, the overall tone of the message for this Direct draft. While you want to get straight to the point, you feel the **Direct** tone is far too impersonal, so you want to generate a new draft with a different tone. This time, change the tone to **Casual**. Note the change in tone throughout the draft from a direct tone to a casual tone. 
1. You should now have three drafts. Draft 1 should have the default Formal tone, draft 2 should have a Direct tone, and Draft 3 should have a Casual tone. Review the new draft. At this point, you realize that you don't like the **Direct** tone, but you can't decide whether you prefer the **Formal** or **Casual** tone.
1. If you can't remember how the two messages appeared beyond the salutations, follow the previous instructions to select the back arrow to return to the first draft, which had a **Formal** tone. If you can't decide which draft you prefer, use the forward and backward arrows to compare the first draft (Formal) and the third draft (Casual). Proceed to the next step once you decide which draft you want to use, but don’t select the **Keep it** option just yet.
1. At this point, your preferred draft should appear in the Copilot window. On this draft, you don't feel that the email should be any shorter, but you're curious what a longer version would look like. In the menu, select **Make it longer**.
1. Note how Copilot generates a fourth draft (4 of 4) based on the draft you selected, although this time it created a longer version. After reviewing this latest draft, you feel this version is the one that you want to use. However, beyond the changes to the tone and length that you previously made, it strikes you that the email message seems a bit sparse. You notice that it doesn't provide any detailed information about the rate increases, at least not broken down by individual and family plans. In the prompt field at the top of the menu, enter the following prompt: **Please compare the level of premium increases being proposed for Northwind Traders in comparison to industry-wide premium increases. Our individual policy premiums increased over 9%, and family policies increased over 15%. Mention how our increases far exceed the industry averages of 6% and 10% increases, respectively**.
1. Scroll through the updated draft to review the changes. This draft looks better. However, you decide to add one last note regarding a possible change to high deductible/low premium plans. Enter the following prompt: **Please mention that we should discuss converting to high-deductible, low premium policies**.
1. After reviewing this latest iteration, you're satisfied with the draft, so select the **Keep it** option in the menu.
1. Note how the message appears in the body of the email. In a real-world scenario, you would either send the email as is or make any final changes manually. Once you keep a Copilot draft, you must manually make any further changes yourself. You can't go back into Copilot draft mode with that message. However, now that you converted the Copilot draft into an actual email, you want to see what Copilot's Coaching feature is all about. The Coaching feature reviews emails that you manually write, and then it suggests improvements that you can make. In fact, it can automatically apply the improvements that it suggests if you authorize it to do so. In this exercise, you're going to have Copilot review the email that it just created to see what suggestions it would offer to improve itself. Since Copilot created the email, you might think that there would be no room for improvement. Let's see.
1. In the Outlook ribbon, select the Copilot button at the end of the ribbon. At the start of this exercise, you selected the **Draft** option. This time, select **Coaching**.
1. Review the suggestions that Copilot generated. Note that Copilot can be critical of itself depending on the Tone and messaging that you submitted in the prior prompts. For example, if you selected a Casual tone, Copilot may suggest changing some of the casual verbiage to a more formal tone. You can manually apply selected suggestions, or you can have Copilot automatically apply all the suggestions for you. In this case, select **Apply all suggestions** in the menu. 
1. Note what happens. Copilot opens another draft window in which it applies the suggestions. If you scroll up in the body of the message, note the original email that you kept from the original draft versions. Below that is a draft window in which the coaching suggestions are all applied. Applying the suggestions in draft mode enables you to make more changes if you wish to the draft version without affecting the actual email message. In this case, you're satisfied with the coaching suggestions that Copilot applied, so select **Replace** in the menu.
1. Note how the draft version that included the coaching suggestions replaced the original version.  
1. Let's try the Coaching feature one more time. In the **Outlook** ribbon, select the **Copilot** button, and then select **Coaching** from the drop-down menu that appears.
1. Note the suggestions that Copilot generates. How are they different from the suggestions that it previously made? In our testing, subsequent Coaching iterations resulted in Copilot suggesting changes to entire sentences, whereas in the first Coaching exercise, it made smaller suggestions to selected words or phrases. Go ahead and select **Apply all suggestions**, which applies the suggestions to the draft version. Then select **Replace** to replace the prior version of the email with this updated version. 
1. You can repeat these Coaching steps as many times as you would like, until you reach the point where you're satisfied with the email. Out of curiosity, during our testing, we repeated these Coaching steps five times. Since Copilot created the email and we then applied five different sets of coaching suggestions, we were curious if it was going to tell us at some point that the email was perfect and there was nothing left to improve upon. However, even after five Coaching iterations, it still provided more suggestions. 
1. Since you don't plan to send this email, select the trash can (**Discard**) icon in the upper right corner of the email screen and then confirm that you want to discard the message.
