#  Analyze a financial spreadsheet using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Excel
---
For Finance professionals, Microsoft 365 Copilot in Excel offers numerous benefits, including the ability to ask questions about your data set in natural language instead of relying solely on formulas. The tool can reveal correlations, suggest what-if scenarios, and create powerful visualizations based on your queries. For example, you can use Copilot in Excel to break down sales data by type and channel. Or you can project the impact of a variable change in your data and then generate a chart to help visualize it. You can also model how a change to the growth rate for a variable would impact gross margin.

Copilot in Excel enables you to automate repetitive tasks. In doing so, it unlocks more creative and innovative approaches within the workforce, accelerating progress in various business lines. It's a valuable tool for Finance professionals who want to streamline their daily processes and make more informed decisions.

To use Copilot in Excel, your data needs to be formatted in one of the following ways:

**Excel table.** You can format your data as an Excel table. This method is often the preferred one as it allows for easier manipulation and analysis of data. When you format data as an Excel table (using the **Insert > Table** option), the data is organized in a structured way with named ranges, and Excel automatically applies specific features such as filtering, sorting, and easy referencing of columns. Doing so helps Copilot understand and work with the data more effectively.

**Range data.** Copilot can still analyze and assist with data in a regular range, which is also known as nontable formatting. Copilot in Excel can generate insights, summarize data, create formulas, and provide suggestions. However, it might have more limitations in working with nontabular data, as there's no predefined structure like you get with tables. 

In this exercise, you use Copilot in Excel to analyze a market trend spreadsheet that's formatted in an Excel table. This exercise examines many of Copilot's prebuilt functions and prompts.

### Exercise

As Fabrikam's Director of Finance, you want to analyze how effective the company's Q1 marketing campaigns were. Your Director of Marketing provided you with a spreadsheet that identifies each of the marketing campaigns the company engaged in during the first quarter. The spreadsheet provides basic budget and revenue figures and the number of targeted and engaged users. It's now your job to analyze the numbers to determine the effectiveness of each campaign type.

Perform the following steps to have Copilot in Excel analyze the data that appears in the Q1 marketing campaigns spreadsheet:

1. Select the following link to download the [Fabrikam Q1 marketing campaigns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2269124) spreadsheet.
1. Once the download is complete, open **File Explorer** and copy the file from your **Downloads** folder to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder.
1. In this exercise, you access the document from the Most Recently Used file list in Excel. To get the file to appear in the MRU list, open the document and then close it. 
1. Open your Edge browser (if necessary) and navigate to the **Microsoft 365** home page by entering the following URL: **https://www.office.com**  
1. On the **Microsoft 365** home page, select the **Excel** icon in the navigation pane on the left. If the icon doesn't appear, select **Apps** in the navigation pane, and then select **Excel** from the **Apps** page.
1. In **Excel**, scroll down to the list of all files in the MRU list. The **All** tab is displayed by default. Select the **Fabrikam Q1 marketing campaigns** file.
1. With the spreadsheet open in **Excel**, select the **Copilot** option on the right side of the ribbon (if the ribbon isn't displayed, select the **Home** tab). Doing so opens the **Copilot** pane. 
1. In the **Copilot** pane that appears, note the predefined prompts that are displayed. Before you select any of these predefined prompts to improve your analysis, you first want Copilot to make some specific changes to the spreadsheet. To begin with, you want Copilot to identify which campaign types are most profitable. To do so, enter the following prompt: **Create a pivot table to analyze the total revenue generated by each campaign type**.
1. Review the results of this prompt. Copilot displayed two responses in the Copilot pane. The first response included a pivot table that summarized the total revenue by campaign type. The second response included an explanation for what it did in the first response. In the first response containing this table, select the **+Add to a new sheet** button. Doing so adds this table to **Sheet 2** of this spreadsheet, which Copilot then opened for you. If Sheet 2 doesn't appear, then select the **Refresh** icon at the top of the page, next to the URL address bar.
1. In looking at **Sheet 2**, you notice that Copilot didn't create a chart to accompany the pivot table. In looking at the prompt you submitted, you realize that you just asked it to create a pivot table - you never mentioned anything about a chart. You would like to see a visualization of this data, so you want to enter a prompt asking Copilot to generate a chart to go along with the pivot table in **Sheet 2**.  
1. You must be on the actual spreadsheet to make a Copilot request that analyzes the spreadsheet data. Copilot sometimes displays an error message if you stay on Sheet 2 and submit a prompt based on the data in Sheet1. Other times, it provides instruction on how to complete your prompt request given the limited data in the pivot table on the current sheet. To avoid these situations, you should return to the sheet containing the spreadsheet data before proceeding. Select **Sheet 1** and then enter the following prompt in the Copilot pane (Note: If you had to refresh the spreadsheet to see Sheet 2 and doing so closed the Copilot pane, then open it again): **In Sheet 2, you created a pivot table to analyze the total revenue generated by each campaign type. Create a chart to visualize this data**.
1. Review the chart that Copilot created that shows the revenue by campaign type. This result is what you wanted, so select the **+Add to a new sheet** button that appears below the chart. Doing so adds this chart to **Sheet 3** of this spreadsheet.
1. In looking at **Sheet 3**, you note how Copilot included the pivot table along with the chart. You realize that **Sheet 2** has the same pivot table, while **Sheet 3** has the table and chart. Since you want **Sheet 3** that has both the table and chart, you decide to remove **Sheet 2** to avoid any future confusion. To delete **Sheet 2**, right-click on it, select **Delete** from the menu that appears, and then select **OK** to confirm the deletion. Doing so leaves you with Sheets 1 and 3.
1. Since you want to make more changes, select **Sheet 1** to return to your Fabrikam Q1 marketing campaigns file.
1. You now want to identify which campaigns were the most effective. To do so, you want Copilot to calculate the Return on Investment (ROI) for each campaign. To calculate the ROI, enter the following prompt in the Copilot pane: **Calculate the ROI for each campaign**.
1. Review the results of this prompt. The prompt assumed Copilot would display the ROI that it calculated for each prompt. However, sometimes in our testing it just displayed the calculation and the steps it took to calculate each ROI, but it didn’t display the ROI values. If Copilot didn’t display the ROI for each campaign, then enter the following revised prompt that specifically tells it to display the ROI: **Calculate and display the ROI for each campaign.** Because the calculation appears to be a bit cryptic, select the **Show explanation** option that appears below the ROI calculation. 
1. After learning how Copilot calculated the ROI for each campaign, you want Copilot to add the ROI to your spreadsheet. Hold your cursor over  the **+Insert column** button (don't select it yet) that appears at the bottom of the ROI table. Note how this action displays the ROI column in the spreadsheet. When you move the cursor off this button, the column disappears. This feature enables you to visualize how the insertion would look. Since you're satisfied with this ROI column, select the **+Insert column** button to permanently add the ROI column into the spreadsheet.
1. Note the results. Copilot added a new column containing the ROI for each individual campaign. While that's fine, you want Copilot to also determine the ROI for each campaign type. You realized your mistake when you reviewed your prior prompt. You asked Copilot to calculate the ROI for each campaign, when in fact, you wanted it to calculate the ROI for each campaign type. Enter the following prompt to calculate the ROI for each campaign type: **That change looks good. However, I would like you to do two more things dealing with ROI. First, calculate the ROI for each campaign type. Second, display a graph of the ROI for each campaign type.**
1. Review the results. Copilot created a graph showing the ROI by campaign type. You want to include this chart in your spreadsheet, so select the **+Add to a new sheet** option that appears below the graph. In our testing, Copilot sometimes added this table to a new Sheet 4, while other times it added it to Sheet 2 (remember, you previously deleted Sheet 2). In either case, Copilot created a pivot table containing the ROI by campaign type and displayed the corresponding chart. 
1. During our testing, the ROI numbers on the X-axis of this new chart were illegible, since the numbers all overlapped one another. Here's how the chart appeared when we asked Copilot to create it.<br><br>

    :::image type="content" source="../media/roi-campaign-bar-chart-illegible.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the original version of the ROI by campaign type bar chart showing illegible numbers on the ROI axis." border="true":::

1. If your chart appears like this, select on the chart to highlight the border, and then drag the vertical border line on the right side of the chart about an inch to the right. Doing so extends the size of the chart, and when you release off the chart, the ROI numbers should now be legible. <br><br>

    :::image type="content" source="../media/roi-campaign-bar-chart-legible.png" alt-text="Screenshot of an extended version of the ROI by campaign type bar chart showing legible numbers on the ROI axis." border="true":::

1. After you finish reviewing this data, select **Sheet 1**.
1. You now want Copilot to determine which campaigns were most effective at engaging users. You feel the best way to visualize this data is to have Copilot create a chart that shows the relationship between total users targeted and total users engaged. To do so, enter the following prompt in the Copilot pane: **Create a chart that shows which campaign was most effective at engaging users**.
1. Review the results. If Copilot just summarized the total engaged users by campaign, that's not exactly what you wanted. To correct this result, enter the following prompt: **That type of chart isn't what I was looking for. Please create a chart that shows the relationship between total users targeted and total users engaged**.
1. Review the results. Since you asked Copilot to create a chart "showing the relationship" between total users targeted and total users engaged, it created a scatter chart rather than a traditional bar or pie chart. You like this type of chart, so you want to add it to a new sheet. In our testing, rather than an **+Add to a new sheet** button, an **+Add to sheet** button appeared below the chart. Select whichever button appears.  
1. If the button said **+Add to a new sheet**, then Copilot should have created a new sheet that included the chart. If this scenario happens to you, then proceed to the next step. However, if your button said **+Add to sheet**, then notice how Copilot added the chart to **Sheet 1**, below the spreadsheet. This result isn't what you want, so enter the following prompt: **Instead of adding the chart to Sheet 1, can you please move it to a new sheet.** If Copilot returns a message indicating that it was unable to move the chart to a new sheet, you can optionally follow the instructions that it provides to manually move the chart to a new sheet.
1. If you're on any sheet other than **Sheet 1**, then select **Sheet 1** to return to your spreadsheet.
1. You have one final piece of data that you want Copilot to provide. You would like Copilot to identify the top-performing campaigns based on revenue generated. You can then use this information to identify which campaigns are most profitable. Enter the following prompt: **Identify the top-performing campaigns based on revenue generated**.
1. Review the results. Copilot created a graph showing the **Revenue by campaign name**. Select the option below the graph to **+Add to a new sheet**. Doing so adds this table to a new sheet. In addition to the bar chart that it created, Copilot also created a pivot table displaying the total revenue by campaign. When you're done reviewing this data, select **Sheet 1**.
1. That completes the data that you wanted Copilot to analyze for you. However, you're curious as to what other suggestions Copilot may have to further analyze your campaign data. In the list of predefined prompts that appear above the prompt field, look for a suggestion titled **Show a suggestion for a formula column**. If you see this suggestion, then select it now. However, if you don't see this suggestion, then enter it manually in the prompt field.
1. Review the column suggestion. If you want to add it to your spreadsheet, select the **+Insert column** button. Note the column's appearance in the spreadsheet.
1. If the predefined prompt titled **Show a suggestion for a formula column** appears, then select it now. However, if this predefined prompt doesn't appear, then enter it manually in the prompt field.
1. Repeat the previous steps a few times to have Copilot suggest different calculations. Insert the ones you like and skip the ones you don't (for example, during our testing, it suggested a column showing **Campaign duration**, which we didn't care to add).
1. You now want Copilot to show you some more charts that visualize various types of data relationships. In the list of predefined prompts, select the **Show data insights** button if one appears; otherwise enter this prompt manually in the prompt field.
1. Review the results. If this chart is of interest to you, select the **+Add to a new sheet** button and then return to **Sheet 1**.
1. Then select the **Can I see another insight**? button. Again, if this chart is of interest to you, select the **+Add to a new sheet** button and then return to **Sheet 1**.
1. After seeing these first two charts, you realize that you like the various charts that Copilot provides. Instead of looking through more charts one by one, you want Copilot to add to your spreadsheet all the insights that it can create based on your data. In the predefined prompts, select the **Add all insights to grid** prompt. If this prompt doesn't appear, then manually enter it.
1. Review the results. Copilot created multiple charts in the final sheet, along with several pivot tables. You determine that your analysis is complete given all the data that Copilot in Excel provided. Since Excel automatically saved your file, close your Microsoft Edge browser tab.
