
# Create a sales presentation using Microsoft 365 Copilot in PowerPoint
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot in PowerPoint is a powerful tool that can help Sales professionals create and organize presentations. It can transform existing written documents into decks complete with speaker notes and sources or start a new presentation from a simple prompt or outline. With Copilot in PowerPoint, they can focus on the content of their presentations, while the tool takes care of the design and formatting.

Copilot can also help presenters summarize their presentations, providing a bulleted summary of the key points. This feature can be useful when they must quickly understand the content of a presentation or share the main ideas with their team.

In addition, Copilot in PowerPoint can generate new design ideas for presentations, suggesting the best design options based on the content. This feature can save presenters time and effort, allowing them to focus on delivering their message effectively. Copilot can also help Sales professionals create a new presentation from an existing Word document, generating slides, applying layouts, and choosing a theme for them.

### Exercise

As the Sales and Marketing Director at Contoso, Ltd., you must provide a presentation to your Sales team regarding the company's hottest selling product, Contoso Protein Plus shake. The presentation should analyze the market trend report that your Marketing team created for the product. Perform the following steps to have Copilot in PowerPoint create your slide presentation based on the information in the **Market Trend Report - Protein Shake.docx** file, which you download at the start of this exercise.

1. Select the following link to download a copy of [Market Trend Report - Protein Shake](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268827).
1. Once the download is complete, open **File Explorer** and move the file from your **Downloads** folder to  your **OneDrive - Microsoft** folder.
1. In this exercise, you plan to access the document from the Most Recently Used file list. To get the file to appear in the Most Recently Used (MRU) list, open the document and then close it.
1. If you have a **Microsoft 365** tab open in your **Microsoft Edge** browser, then select it now; otherwise, open a new tab and enter the following URL: **https://www.office.com**.
1. On the **Microsoft 365** navigation pane, select **PowerPoint** if it appears in the left-hand navigation pane. If it doesn't appear there, then select **Apps** in the navigation pane, and on the **Apps** page, select **PowerPoint**.
1. In **PowerPoint**, open a blank presentation.
1. Select the **Copilot** icon that appears above the first slide. In the **menu** that appears, select **Create a presentation with file**.
1. In the Copilot window that appears, Copilot automatically types in **Create a presentation about /**. Place your cursor after the forward slash and enter **market**. In the Files menu that appears, select the Word document titled: **Market Trend Report - Protein shake**. Note how the file appears in the prompt.
1. At the end of the prompt field, select the **Send** icon.
1. Copilot in PowerPoint uses this information to generate a list of presentation topics. It doesn't generate the slides until you select the **Generate slides** button. Instead, it presents the topics first so that you can modify them, if necessary, before creating the slides.  
1. You can rearrange the order of the topics if you wish. Within each topic group is the main topic title and a list of subtopics. If you hover inside the topic area, a **Reorder Topic** icon appears to the left of the topic. Continue to hold down this icon and then drag and drop the entire topic section up or down in the list to move it to a different place in the presentation.
1. If you wish to remove a topic from the presentation, hover over the topic and then select the **Delete** (trash can) icon that appears. 
1. When you finalize the list of topics, select the **Generate slides** button. Once Copilot finishes generating the slide presentation, it displays the slides in **Slide Sorter** view. In the PowerPoint ribbon, select **View**. In the **View** ribbon, in the **Presentation Views** group, note the **Slide Sorter** option is selected. Select **Normal** to view the slides in the traditional order.
1. You're now free to review the slides and make any necessary updates. You can use the **Designer** tool to adjust the layouts. Select the **Home** tab and then select the **Designer** button, which appears to the left of the **Copilot** button. The **Designer** pane offers samples of different designs for the current slide being displayed. Change to a different slide in the presentation and note how the **Designer** pane generates different design options for that slide. Select one of the design options to have PowerPoint replace the current slide with the new design. This feature isn't Copilot-related. It's available in PowerPoint when you have a Microsoft 365 subscription, but it's nice to try it here if you haven't used it before.
1. By default, Copilot in PowerPoint doesn't generate speaker notes at the time it creates the slides. However, you can ask it during your initial prompt or after the slides are generated to add speaker notes to each slide. Since you already created the slides, select the **Copilot** button in the ribbon, which opens the **Copilot** pane. To ask Copilot to create speaker notes, enter the following prompt at the bottom of the Copilot pane: **Add speaker notes to each slide**. 
    > [!NOTE]
    > It may take Copilot a couple of minutes to generate the speaker notes. 
1. Review the speaker notes once Copilot responds that it added them. If the notes don’t automatically appear, select the **Notes** option at the bottom of the page to view the notes for each slide. Verify the notes call out the points that you want to make during the presentation.
1. Now let's see what else Copilot can do. Above the prompt field in the Copilot pane, Copilot displays questions related to the presentation. The purpose of these questions is two-fold. You can select a question and have Copilot generate an answer, which you can then copy and paste into the speaker notes for an applicable slide. Or you can create a Question and Answer (Q&A) slide and copy and paste in the answers to all these questions in the speaker notes. In doing so, you can use these questions and answers to prepare for the Q&A portion of the presentation. Review the questions and select one of them to see what happens.
1. Select the **Refresh** button that appears above the prompt field. 
1. In doing so, note how Copilot generated a new set of questions. You can continue to refresh the questions by selecting the **Refresh** button until you see a question that you want to address in the presentation. You can then select the question, copy the Copilot-generated answer, and paste it into the speaker notes of the slide of your choosing. Once Copilot can't think of any new questions to offer, it starts repeating the list of questions from the start.
1. You now want Copilot to create a slide at the end of the presentation for a Q&A session. When you want Copilot to add a new slide, it places it AFTER the current slide that's selected and displayed - even if you specify a specific slide number in your prompt. For example, if you enter a prompt that says, "Add a slide about XYZ after slide 6," Copilot ignores the slide 6 instruction and adds the slide after the currently selected slide. So, select the slide that you want to appear before the Q&A slide and then enter the following prompt: **Add a slide for a Question and Answer (Q&A) session**.
1. Review the Q&A slide that Copilot created. Now let's try one final thing. You want Copilot to compile a list of potential questions that viewers may ask. Doing so enables you to help prepare for the Q&A session. Enter the following prompt to see if Copilot can add its suggested questions to the speaker notes on the Q&A slide: **In the speaker notes of the Q&A slide that you just created, add a list of possible questions that may be asked regarding this presentation.**
1. If this prompt didn't work and Copilot instead inserted text into the speaker notes of the Q&A slide that explains the importance of a Q&A session, then try a different approach. In the Copilot pane, enter the following prompt: **Create a list of 10 questions about this presentation that might be asked by viewers. For each question, provide a suggested answer.** 
    - If this revised prompt still didn’t work (for example, if Copilot generates the same set of speaker notes as the previous prompt), then close the Copilot pane, re-open it, and then re-enter this last prompt. This process worked in our testing. Again, remember that Copilot is still a work in progress, so these types of situations may pop up from time to time.
1. Once Copilot generates the list of questions and answers, you can select the **Copy** icon that appears after the list and then paste the copied text into the speaker notes for the Q&A slide. 

Because the remaining training exercises in this module don't use this presentation, you can either discard it or save it if you want to retain a copy for future reference.
