# Create interview questions using different Copilots
---
One of the popular features of Microsoft 365 Copilot is that you can often use different Copilots to complete the same function. This exercise is a perfect example of that flexibility.

As the HR Manager at the Graphic Design Institute, you used Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word to compare resumes for a new Senior Animation Designer role. In this exercise, you continue on that hiring journey by using Microsoft 365 Copilot to develop a set of interview questions that you can use when interviewing the top candidates for this Senior Animation Designer role.

However, you discover that you can use Copilot in three different Microsoft 365 apps to create interview questions. As such, you plan to conduct a little experiment in which you compare the quality of the interview questions generated by the three copilots to determine which one provides the best questions. And as a by-product, you get a list of the top 15 questions to ask.

You should begin by having Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop, Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat at Microsoft365.com/copilot, and Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word create a set of 15 questions each.

> [!TIP]
> If any of the Copilots generate extra comments to go along with each question, ask it to keep its response to just the questions.

You should then copy and paste the 15 questions generated by each Copilot tool into a single Word document, giving you a total pool of 45 questions. From that document, you'll then have Copilot in Word compare those 45 questions and select the top 15 from the pool. For each question that Copilot recommends, have it identify the source of the question, whether it be Copilot in Word, Copilot in Loop, or Copilot Chat. And then from the final list of 15 questions, ask Copilot in Word to display the total number of questions generated by Copilot in Loop, Copilot Chat, and Copilot in Word.
