# Create a job description using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word is an AI-powered writing assistant that can help HR professionals streamline their work processes and improve their productivity. Copilot can assist HR professionals in various ways, including automated resume screening, job description assistance, efficient onboarding, employee feedback analysis, and more.

For example, Copilot can automate the initial stages of the resume screening process, helping HR professionals quickly identify the most suitable candidates from large pools of applicants. Copilot can also simplify the handling of onboarding documents, from contract generation to policy dissemination, making the onboarding process more efficient. Plus, it can help create customized onboarding plans for new hires, ensuring they feel welcome and well-informed from day one.

Copilot in Word can also analyze employee feedback and surveys, providing HR professionals with insights into employee satisfaction and areas for improvement. It can suggest tailored training and development programs for employees, enhancing their skills and career progression.

### Exercise

As the HR Manager at Graphic Design Institute, you started the hiring process for a new Senior Animation Designer. Your staff created a document that outlines all the job responsibilities for this role. You now want to use Copilot in Word to create a job description based on the role responsibilities in this document.

1. Select the following link to download the [Graphic Design Institute - Design Team Responsibilities](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268824) document.
1. After the download completes, move the file to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder, and then open and close the file to get it in your Most Recently Used (MRU) file list.
1. If you have a Microsoft 365 tab open in your Microsoft Edge browser, then select it now; otherwise, open a new tab and enter the following URL: [**https://www.office.com**](https://www.office.com)
1. In **Microsoft 365**, open **Microsoft Word**, and then open a blank document.
1. In the **Copilot** prompt that appears above the blank document, enter the following prompt, but don't select the **Generate** button until after you link the responsibilities file to the prompt in the next step: **I'm the HR Manager at the Graphic Design Institute. We've currently started the hiring process for a new Senior Animation Designer. Please review the attached document that outlines the job responsibilities for this role and create a job description based on those responsibilities**.
1. You now must attach to the prompt the **Graphic Design Institute - Design Team Responsibilities.docx** file that you downloaded. In the **Copilot** prompt window, select the **+Add content** button. In the drop-down menu that appears, select the **Files** tab, and then select the **Graphic Design Institute - Design Team Responsibilities.docx** file. Note how the file is displayed in the prompt.
1. Select **Generate**.
1. Review the first draft of the job description document. You note that it doesn't include many of the details found in the job responsibilities document. Instead, it provides summarized sentences for each responsibility. To correct this shortcoming, enter the following prompt and select the forward arrow: **While this job description draft is a good start, you failed to include most of the details found in the job responsibilities document. Please try again, and this time outline each responsibility area and select the responsibilities required of a Senior Animation Designer**. **Be as specific as you can**.
1. Review the second draft. After you looked back at the **Graphic Design Institute - Design Team Responsibilities.docx** file, it dawned on you that this file didn't include several other areas that you want included in the job description report. Enter the following prompt to have Copilot add these other responsibilities: **Please enhance the job description for a Senior Animation Designer role. Add sections on Leadership, Performance metrics, Company culture and values, and Additional benefits if they are not already in the first draft.** Review the third draft. You realize that there's one last section missing. You want Copilot to add a section on Education. Enter the following prompt to have Copilot add this section to the report: **Please add a section on Education to the report. Also ensure there's a Summary or Position Overview section at the start of the document that provides a high-level overview of the role. If there isn't one, then add it now.**
1. Review this final draft (4 of 4) of the job description report. However, before you keep this version, you want to use the backward and forward arrows above the prompt field to make one final review each draft to determine if one of your earlier versions is preferable to the final draft. Your goal is to create a job description report that's clear and concise. As such, you want to review the earlier drafts to determine if one that isn’t so lengthy would better serve you. Make sure you're on the draft that you want to use, and then select the **Keep it** button in the prompt field. 
1. Now that you converted your selected draft into a live Word document, open the Copilot pane for this report by selecting the **Copilot** button that appears at the far right-side of the **Home** tab ribbon. Before you save this document, you decide to ask Copilot to recommend any other job responsibilities for this role. Enter the following prompt: **Is there anything missing from this job description for a Senior Animation Designer role that you think should be included?**
1. After reviewing Copilot's suggestions, you're reminded of the saying, "Be careful what you wish for." Copilot's list of suggested responsibilities is impressive, but you're concerned that it may be too much for a workable job description document. You decide to have Copilot only include one of the suggestions. Enter the following prompt and replace the **{selected suggestion}** with the one you want it to include: **These are all good suggestions. However, rather than including all of them in the report, please add just the suggestion titled {selected suggestion}.**
1. Note how Copilot narrowed its suggested list down to just this one item. Before you have Copilot insert this item into the report, you must place your cursor where you want Copilot to insert your selected suggestion. It could be its own section or a bulleted item in an existing section. Then select the **Insert** button below this response. If necessary, make any formatting changes that may be required to improve the appearance of this inserted suggestion.
1. Before you're done with this file, check the sensitivity label assigned to the file. Above the menu bar, to the right of the file name field, hover over the sensitivity label symbol. If the symbol doesn't represent **Public** (for example, if it's **Confidential** or some other value), then select the symbol, and in the menu that appears, select **Public**. In the **Justification Required** window that appears, select **Previous label was incorrect** and then select the **Change** button. 
1. You want to change the name of this file, so in the file name field that appears to the left of the sensitivity label icon, enter **Job description - Senior Animation Designer** and then hit Enter. When you're done, close this tab in your Edge browser. 

    > [!IMPORTANT]
    > This document is used in the next exercise.
