# Analyze resumes and make a recommendation using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word
---
In the prior exercise, you learned how Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word can assist HR professionals in crafting a job description. In this exercise, you learn how it can automate the initial stages of the resume screening process by ranking the candidates and providing suggested salary ranges for each based on their qualifications. This functionality can help HR professionals quickly identify the most suitable candidates from large pools of applicants.

### Exercise

As the HR Manager at Graphic Design Institute, you started the hiring process for a new Senior Animation Designer. Your staff created a document that outlines all the job responsibilities for this role. In turn, you created a job description that you posted on the Web and on the company's internal employee website. You now want to use Copilot in Word to screen a batch of resumes that you received for the role and provide a recommendation as to which of the candidates qualifies for a job interview. You want Copilot to rank the candidates and provide suggested salary ranges for each based on their qualifications and ranking.

At the end of the prior exercise, you saved the job description file that you created. You were instructed to save the file as **Job description -** **Senior Animation Designer.** If you saved it as a different file name, then remember the name that you used so that you can locate the file in this exercise. In this exercise, perform the following steps to have Copilot in Word compare the four resumes that you received against this job description file to help determine which candidate is most qualified:

1. Select the following links to download the resumes that you received thus far:
    - [Resume - Patti Fernandez](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268829)
    - [Resume - Nestor Wilke](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268930)
    - [Resume - Holly Dickson](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268828)
    - [Resume - Alex Wilber](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2269127)
1. Once the downloads are complete, open **File Explorer** and copy the files from your **Downloads** folder to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder.
1. In this exercise, you access the documents from the Most Recently Used (MRU) file list. To get the files to appear in the MRU list, open each document and then close it. Open and close each of the four resume files in your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder.
1. In this exercise, you access the documents from the Most Recently Used file list in Word. To get the file to appear in the MRU list, open the document and then close it. 
1. Open your Edge browser (if necessary) and navigate to the **Microsoft 365** home page by entering the following URL: **https://www.office.com**  
1. Make sure you also open and close the **Job description -** **Senior Animation Designer.docx** file that you created in the prior exercise. 
1. On the **Microsoft 365** home page, select the **Word** icon in the navigation pane on the left. If the icon doesn't appear, select **Apps** in the navigation pane, and then select **Word** from the **Apps** page.
1. In **Microsoft Word**, open a blank document.
1. In the **Copilot** window that appears at the top of the blank document, enter the following prompt, but don't submit the prompt just yet. You must attach the files to the prompt in the next step: **I'm the Hiring Manager for Graphic Design Institute. We're hiring for the position of Senior Animation Designer. Please create a report that compares the attached resumes to the requirements for a Senior Animation Designer in the attached job description file and rank the candidates from most qualified to least qualified. Thank you!**
1. You now must attach to the prompt the **Job description - Senior Animation Designer.docx** file that you saved to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder at the end of the prior exercise. In the **Copilot** window, select the **+Add content** button. In the menu that appears, select the **Files** tab. If the job description file appears in the list of files, select it. Otherwise, enter **Job** in the **Select** field, locate the job description file that you saved to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder in the prior exercise, and then select it. Note how the file is displayed in the prompt.
1. Repeat the prior step for each of the four resumes that you downloaded and then select the **Generate** icon. 
1. Review the report that Copilot generated. It appears to you that if the information is presented in a table format, then it might be easier for you to review the candidate's qualifications to see if you agree with Copilot's recommendation. Enter the following prompt: **Please generate a new draft of this report. This time, enter the information for each candidate into a table for easier comparison. In the table, place each candidate in a separate column, and create rows for Skills related to key responsibilities, Performance metrics, Education, Experience, and Leadership.**
1. You're now looking at the second draft of the report (2 of 2) that compares the resumes using different report formatting. Copilot gives you the ability to regenerate however many drafts you want until you find one that you prefer. Select the backward arrow to move back to the first draft. Review the format. Select the forward arrow to move back to the second draft. Review the format. Repeat this process until you decide which draft you want to use. Make sure you're looking at the preferred draft and then select the **Keep it** button. 
1. You decide to have Copilot help with one last thing. Now that you kept the draft of your choice, you're no longer in Draft mode. As such, you must select the **Copilot** button on the right side of the Word ribbon for the **Home** tab to continue using Copilot. 
1. In the Copilot pane that appears, enter the following prompt to have Copilot help determine what your salary offer should be for each candidate based on their ranking (in case any of the candidates reject your offer and you have to make an offer to another candidate): **Determine the average pay scale for Senior Animation Designers. What would be the recommended annual salary that we should offer each candidate based on their ranking?**
1. Based on this prompt, Copilot should access the web to determine the average pay scale for Senior Animation Designers and then return recommendations for each candidate. If Copilot's response provides a general salary range but doesn't provide a specific salary recommendation for each candidate, then enter the following prompt: **Thank you for the salary range. However, I'm interested in knowing what salary I should offer to each of the four candidates based on their ranking in the report. Can you please provide a suggested salary for each candidate.** 
    > [!NOTE]
    > If Copilot generates a partial answer but then returns an error message indicating something went wrong, then repeat this step. Our testing has shown that it sometimes takes multiple attempts for Copilot to get it right. If it still doesn’t generate the expected result after a couple of tries, then proceed to the next step.  
1. At this point, Copilot has either generated a general salary range or a specific salary ranking by employee. Regardless of your outcome, you want Copilot to insert its response in the document. To do so, place your cursor at the end of the report. To ensure proper formatting, select **Normal** in the ribbon that appears for the **Home** tab. Then select the **Insert** button in the Copilot pane to insert the salary information into the report.
1. Since you don't use this report in the remaining exercises, you can close this tab in your Edge browser.

   
