# Create interview questions using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop is a powerful tool that can help teams collaborate more effectively and efficiently. With Copilot in Loop, you can create workspaces and pages, use intelligent search and templates to add relevant content, and share your work with others. Copilot in Loop can suggest ideas and help start projects, making it easier to get going when you find yourself stuck. It can draft texts, create tables, generate code for tech projects, and even answer questions quickly.

As an HR professional, you're drawn to the fact that Copilot in Loop can assist you through so many aspects of the HR experience - from the hiring process, to managing employees, to handling important documents, to managing internal communications.

In this exercise, you want Copilot to help with the hiring process for a new role. While you used Copilot in Word in the prior exercise to screen resumes, rank the candidates, and provide suggested salary ranges for each, you want to use Copilot in Loop to create a list of interview questions for the top candidates. During this creation process, you want to see whether Copilot in Loop can amend the list of questions based on your direction.

### Exercise

As the HR Manager at the Graphic Design Institute, you previously used Copilot in Word to compare resumes for a new Senior Animation Designer role and rank the candidates. In this exercise, you continue that hiring journey by using Microsoft 365 Copilot to develop a set of interview questions that you can use when interviewing the top candidates.

You know that you can also use various forms of Copilot (such as Copilot in Word and Microsoft 365 Copilot) to create interview questions. However, you decide to use Copilot in Loop because you're attracted to Loop's collaboration features. You learned that you can collaborate with others on your HR team in real-time on the same Loop component, using different apps and devices, and see the changes instantly. 

Perform the following steps to have Copilot in Loop generate interview questions:

1. If you have **Microsoft 365** open in a tab, then proceed to the next step. Otherwise, open a new tab in your **Microsoft Edge** browser, and then enter the following URL: [**https://www.office.com**](https://www.office.com)
1. In **Microsoft 365**, select **Loop** if it appears in the left-hand navigation pane. If it doesn't appear there, then select **Apps**, and on the **Apps** page, scroll down to locate **Loop** and then select it.
1. In **Microsoft Loop**, select the **Getting Started** tile.
1. In **Loop**, the **Getting Started** tab is displayed in the left-hand navigation pane. You want to create a new workspace for this project, so select the **+Create new** button that appears at the top of the navigation pane. In the drop-down menu that appears, select **New workspace**.
1. In the **Create a new workspace** window, enter **Interview questions** for your workspace name, and then select the **Create** button.
1. You're now in the first page for your new workspace. The name of the page is currently **Untitled**. Note the page (**Untitled**) also appears in the middle navigation pane. In the main body of the page, select in the **Untitled** field and change the name of the page to: **Interview questions for the Senior Animation Designer role**. Note how the page name is automatically updated in the middle navigation pane.
1. In the **Use Copilot or** **just start typing...** field that appears below the page title, enter a forward slash **(/)**.
1. In the drop-down menu that appears, under the **Copilot** section at the top of the menu, select **Draft page content**. You plan to enter your own custom prompt, so proceed to the next step and don't select any of the suggested prompts from the menu.
1. In the **Copilot** window that appears, enter the following prompt and select the **Send** icon: **Create a list of the 15 best interview questions that should be asked to candidates applying for a new Senior Animation Designer role at the Graphic Design Institute.**
1. Review the list of questions. You feel this initial list is a good start, but you notice several types of questions are missing. Notice how the Copilot window appears much smaller than the Copilot window in other Microsoft 365 apps. Enter the following prompt in this Copilot window: **Add a question about having failed at a project and what they learned from it.**
1. Review the new question that Copilot automatically added to the end of the document. 
1. After scanning the list one last time, you realize that it includes few, if any questions about leadership. To correct this situation, enter the following prompt in the Copilot window: **As a Senior Animation Designer, the candidate is expected to lead their design team on projects. Create a question that asks the candidate to talk about a couple of their most significant experiences in leading other design team members, and what their leadership style is**.
1. Review the new question that Copilot added to the end of the list. At this point, you're unsure if the current list of questions is sufficient. To play it safe, you decide to ask Copilot in Loop to recommend some more questions. However, in this case, you must open the Copilot pane to ask Copilot a question. If you enter a question in the Copilot window, it won’t generate an answer, since the Copilot window isn't designed to answer questionsAs such, select the **Copilot** icon that appears at the top right of the **Loop** page, next to the **Share** button. 
    > [!TIP]
    > In our testing, the Copilot window consistently covered the Copilot icon. Because you can’t drag the window to a different location to expose the Copilot icon, you must select the X in the upper corner of the Copilot window to close it. Then select the **Copilot** icon, which opens the Copilot pane. You can always reopen the Copilot window by selecting the Copilot icon that appears to the right of the first question. 
1. In the Copilot pane, enter the following prompt: **Are there any other questions that you think should be added to the list?**
1. Review the list of new questions that Copilot generated in the Copilot pane. If Copilot doesn't include an **Insert** button, select the **Copy** icon that appears below the newly generated questions to copy them to the clipboard.
1. To indicate where the new questions should be inserted in the Loop page, scroll down to the end of the document, place your cursor after the final question and enter **Ctrl+V** to paste in the questions. 
    > [!NOTE]
    > If the questions were formatted in a bulleted list in the Copilot pane, then they’ll appear in a bulleted list when you copy and paste them into the Loop page. In a real-world scenario, you would normally clean up this formatting to make it all consistent rather than having both a numeric list and a bulleted list. However, given the time constraints for this training, we won’t make any formatting changes in this exercise. 
1. Note the final list of questions that Copilot in Loop generated. You now have a vast assortment of questions to choose from when interviewing your candidates. And with Loop, you know that others on your HR team can see these questions in real-time on the same Loop component, even if they're using different apps and devices.
