# Compose an email offer letter using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook
---
This exercise is the culmination of the previous HR exercises in which you used various copilots to help in the hiring process for a new position. You used Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word to create a job responsibility spec for the Senior Animation Designer role at Graphic Design Institute. You then used Copilot in Word to analyze the resumes that four candidates submitted. Finally, you used Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop to draft a list of interview questions for the position. In this exercise, you use Microsoft 365 Copilot in Outlook to draft an email offer letter to the candidate you selected for the new position.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Keep in mind that Copilot scenarios in Outlook are only available on a user's primary mailbox. They aren't available on a user's archive mailbox, group mailboxes, or shared and delegate mailboxes that the user has access to. Microsoft only supports Copilot in Outlook on mailboxes hosted on Exchange Online. Additionally, Copilot in Outlook is only supported in Microsoft 365 work or school accounts and Microsoft accounts with specific email domains. It's supported both through Microsoft 365 Copilot with your Microsoft Entra ID account, and Copilot Pro with your MSA account. Any Microsoft account that uses a third-party email provider can still access Outlook, but it can't access Copilot features in Outlook.

Also remember from previous use cases that Copilot in Outlook can create multiple drafts of the same email. They can have a different tone and length, along with different content. You can then navigate through the various drafts by selecting the forward and backward arrows at the top of the Copilot window. Copilot tells you which draft you're on (for example, 2 of 5), so you can select the appropriate arrow to quickly return to a particular version.

As you review a generated draft, remember the following best practices that you learned in earlier training:

- Note the salutation at the start (Dear/Hello/Hi there, etc.) and the complementary close at the end (Sincerely/Best regards/Thank you, etc.). Are they in the proper tone for the target audience and the type of message that you want to send?
- Note the overall tone of the message. Is it too casual, too formal, or too direct for the type of email that you want?
- Note the length of the message. Is it too short, where it doesn't explain things in enough detail? Or does it continue on for too long, explaining items in too much detail? And is the length appropriate for the target audience?
- Does the message explain items in terms that are too simplistic or complicated given the target audience?

### Exercise

As the HR Manager for Graphic Design Institute, you completed the interview process and you selected your top candidate, Patti Fernandez. You're now ready to make Patti an offer for the position of Senior Animation Designer. To help with this process, you plan to use Copilot in Outlook to draft an email offer sheet.

You want the email to be formal and professional in tone, and it should include the job title, start date, salary, and benefits (which appear in a file you must download). The email should also mention that the offer is contingent upon the successful completion of a background check and any other pre-employment screenings that may be required. As an email offer letter, it must also include an attached copy of the offer letter for the candidate to sign and return.

1. Select the following link to download the [Graphic Design Institute - Employee benefits](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268825) document to your **Downloads** folder.
1. If you have a Microsoft 365 tab open in your Microsoft Edge browser, then select it now; otherwise, open a new tab and enter the following URL: [**https://www.office.com**](https://www.office.com)
1. In **Microsoft 365**, open **Outlook** if it appears in the left-hand navigation pane. If it doesn't appear there, then select **Apps**, and on the **Apps** page, locate **Outlook** and then select it. 
1. Open a **New** email.
1. Select the **Attach file** option in the **Message** ribbon. In the menu that appears, select **Browse this computer**, select the [**Graphic Design Institute - Employee benefits**](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268825) file in your **Downloads** folder, and then select **Open**. It may take a few seconds, but the file should appear in the body of the email.
1. In the **Message** ribbon, select **Copilot**, which appears at the far right end of the ribbon. In the drop-down menu that appears, select **Draft**.
1. Enter the following prompt in the **What do you want this email to say?** field. When you do so, change **[enter date]** in the following prompt with the date you want. Then select **Generate** to submit the request. **I'm the HR Manager for the Graphic Design Institute. Please create an email offer letter to Patti Fernandez that offers her the position of Senior Animation Designer. Patti's planned start date is [enter date]. The starting salary is $87,022. Add a note that if Patti accepts this offer, I will send her a formal offer letter that she must sign and return**. **The tone of the email should be Formal.**
1. Review the first draft that Copilot creates. Note the salutation and complementary close, and the overall tone of the message. If you want to see how these features change when you change the tone of the email, then scroll down to the **Copilot** window, select **Change Tone**, and then select **Direct**. 
1. You feel the Direct tone email is too short and abrupt. Scroll down to the Copilot window and select **Make it longer**.  
1. At this point, you're not sure whether you prefer the **Formal** or **Direct** tone. If you can't remember how the two messages appeared, make note of the salutation and complementary close on the current draft (3 of 3; Direct tone and longer email), and the quality of the message. Then select the back arrow twice to return to the first Copilot draft, which had the **Formal** tone. Compare the salutation, complementary close, tone of the message, and the message contents. It's up to you whether you want to use the **Formal** draft (1 of 3) or the **Direct** draft with a longer email (3 of 3). Just make sure the current draft that you're looking at is the one you want to use.
1. In looking more closely at your selected draft, you noticed that you forgot to have Copilot mention some of the specific employee benefits at Graphic Design Institute. You want Copilot to review the **Graphic Design Institute - Employee benefits** file that you previously attached.

    > [!WARNING]
    >  If you attach a file that's referenced in a Copilot in Outlook prompt that you don't want attached to the final email, then don't forget to remove the file once you finish with the Copilot draft process. For this email, Graphic Design Institute wants to leave the file attached to the email, so don't remove it.

1. Now enter the following request in the **Copilot** prompt field to have Copilot extract the benefit information from the attached file, and then select the **Generate** arrow at the end of the prompt field: **This draft looks good. However, I forgot to ask you to review the attached document and add some specific employee benefits in the email. Also include a note saying that Patti should review the attached document for more information on the full complement of benefits provided by Graphic Design Institute**.
1. Review the latest draft. In doing so, you just noticed that the draft mentioned nothing about the offer being contingent upon the successful completion of a background check. Since the legal department at Graphic Design Institute wants a background check statement included in any offer letters, enter the following request in the **Copilot** prompt field and then select the **Generate** arrow: **Add a note towards the end of the email that this offer is contingent upon the successful completion of a background check and any other pre-employment screenings that may be required**.
1. After reviewing this change, you're happy with this final draft, so select the **Insert below** option in the **Copilot** window. This draft is inserted in the body of the email below the file attachment.
1. Note how the message appears in the body of the email and the **Copilot** window disappears. Since you're no longer in Copilot draft mode, you can manually make any changes that you desire at this time. However, since you aren't sending this message, select the trash can (**Discard**) icon in the upper right corner of the email screen to delete the draft of this email, and then confirm the deletion.
