# Conduct market analysis using Microsoft 365 Business Chat
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot Chat is accessible through Microsoft Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 Copilot app. You can use Copilot Chat in the web, mobile, and desktop versions of Microsoft 365 apps, including Teams and Outlook. Additionally, Copilot Chat is available at Microsoft365.com/copilot. This exercise utilizes the Copilot Chat functionality in the Microsoft 365 Copilot app.

When you use Copilot Chat, it's important to provide context and resources when you craft your prompts. The quality of the response is a function of how the user crafts the request. By following these tips and choosing the right conversation style (either More Creative, More Balanced, or More Precise), you can have a great conversation with Copilot Chat and get the most out of its capabilities.

### Exercise - Conduct a market analysis using different conversation styles

As the Director for Market Research at Tailspin Toys, you must conduct a market analysis of the toy industry and then provide the results to the company's Senior Leadership Team (SLT). Your goal is to identify the latest trends, consumer preferences, and the most popular toys in the market. You plan to use Copilot Chat to generate the analysis. In doing so, you apply different best practices for creating effective prompts. 

Perform the following steps to conduct the market analysis using Copilot Chat:

1. In **Microsoft Edge**, open a new tab and enter the following URL: **https://M365copilot.com**
1. Depending on which Copilot plan you're using, your **Copilot** page displays either a **Work/Web** toggle or it accesses Web content only. If your Copilot page has a **Work/Web** toggle, then select the **Web** toggle switch.
1. In the prompt field, enter the following prompt and then select the **Submit** icon: **I'm the Director for Market Research for Tailspin Toys, a U.S. based toy manufacturer. Conduct a market analysis of the toy industry to identify sales figures, the latest trends, consumer preferences, and the most popular toys in the market**.
1. Review the market analysis that Copilot generated. You realize that a general request such as the one you submitted provides basic information such as market trends, consumer preferences, and toy trends. However, you're also interested in gathering data on the toy industry, including market share and consumer feedback. You realized that you were a little too vague in your prior prompt since you failed to request this specific information. You remember the best practice suggestions from your earlier training - Be polite and iterate, iterate, iterate. Enter the following prompt to amend the market analysis: **That analysis was great. However, I'm also interested in including data on the toy industry, including market share and consumer feedback. Please amend your prior analysis to include this information. Thanks**!
1. You realize that you're getting closer to your goal, but you're still missing some key information. After reviewing your prior prompts, you notice that you provided Copilot with your overall objective, the scope of the analysis, and the data that you needed. However, you failed to ask Copilot to analyze all this information so that you can make informed decisions on Tailspin Toys' business plan for the upcoming year. To correct this shortcoming, enter the following prompt: **I think all the data is complete. With all the information that you captured, please analyze the data and identify patterns, trends, and insights that can help me determine what Tailspin Toys' business plan should be for the upcoming year**. **After you complete your analysis, please amend your findings to the end of your previous report.** 
1. If Copilot generated a section that analyzed the data but didn't add it to the previous report, enter the following prompt: **You failed to amend your findings to the end of the previous report, following the Most Popular Toy section. Can you  please do that now. Thanks!**
1. You really like the information that Copilot provided. However, since this project is your first opportunity to provide a market analysis report to your company's SLT, you're not sure if you're covering everything that might be of interest to them. You decide to have Copilot help you determine if you're missing anything. Enter the following prompt: **Please analyze the data in this market analysis and business plan report that you generated. Is there any other information that a toy company would typically request for market analysis and business plans that I failed to request? If so, can you please add this information to the end of the previous report, after the Recommendations for Tailspin Toys' Business Plan section. Thank you**!
1. Based on the information that Copilot provides, you realize that you can really maximize the effectiveness of your reports by having Copilot include an analysis of these areas. To put the finishing touch on your reports, enter the following prompt: **Please amend the report one final time to include an analysis of each area for the Toy industry. Also update the business plan that you created for Tailspin Toys based on these insights. Thanks**!
1. During our testing, Copilot sometimes didn't update the report following this prior prompt. If that happens to you, enter the following prompt: **This final revision of the report is an exact replica of the version before it. You failed to include an analysis of each area for the Toy industry. You also didn't update the business plan based on these insights. Can you please amend the report to include this information.** In our testing, this prompt sometimes worked and other times didn’t. Again, remember that Copilot is still a work in progress, and these types of issues might occur. 

### A retrospective - Prompting best practices

In the previous exercise, you implemented several best practices for creating effective prompts. While it took you several attempts to gather all the information that you wanted, you successfully created the report that you envisioned. You also included other information that you never considered at the start. Let's review this exercise by analyzing some of the best practices to effective prompting that you implemented:

- **Give Copilot a point of view from which to answer**. You did so by telling Copilot that you were the Director for Market Research at Tailspin Toys, a toy manufacturer. This information helped Copilot understand the context of your request so that it could generate more accurate responses.
- **Know what to avoid when creating a prompt**. After your first prompt, you realized you were a bit vague in your initial request. Don't worry - vagueness is a common issue with many Copilot prompts. That's one of the reasons why Microsoft recommends the "Iterate, iterate, iterate" best practice. In this case, you corrected the shortcoming by asking for more detailed information. In fact, you kept building upon each successive request once you discovered that you were missing specific information.
- **Be polite**. You used basic etiquette when you interacted with Copilot. Doing so helped Copilot generate respectful, collaborative outputs. It mirrored the levels of your professionalism, clarity, and detail in the inputs you provide.
- **Be curious**. At a certain point, you couldn't think of anything else to add to your market analysis and business plan. However, instead of stopping at that point, you asked Copilot what other toy companies typically include in these types of reports, and then you asked it to include that information in yours.
- **Iterate, iterate, iterate.** Throughout this exercise, you demonstrated how working with Copilot is a dynamic and interactive process. You and Copilot worked together to create content, solve complex problems, and learn new information based on your goals, expectations, and feedback. You realized that your initial prompt was just the beginning, and you kept digging deeper to generate more relevant outputs.
