# Brainstorm marketing campaign ideas using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop
---
Microsoft Loop is designed for modern collaboration. Microsoft 365 Copilot in Loop takes that collaboration one step further. You can use Copilot to brainstorm new marketing strategies, plan campaigns, and develop content. Copilot in Loop can help you generate ideas for blog posts, articles, and other content types. You can input topics and desired content style, and Copilot can suggest prompts to help you get started. With Copilot in Loop, you can reduce content creation time by up to 50%.

Social media tools can also utilize Copilot in Loop to generate engaging posts and schedule content. You can develop a week's worth of social media posts for your brand and save up to 3 hours weekly on social media planning. Marketing professionals can also use Copilot in Loop for data analysis and reporting. You can input market data for analysis, and Copilot can suggest prompts to help you analyze the latest trends in your industry. You can integrate Copilot in Loop with ad platforms to help you create and test ad copy variations. You can generate three versions of ad copy for A/B testing and significantly reduce ad creation time. You can also utilize Copilot in Loop in your CRM and data analysis tools to help you analyze customer data and create personas. You can develop detailed customer personas for your target segment and improve your marketing strategy.

In this training exercise, you use Copilot in Loop to brainstorm ideas for a marketing campaign for a new product.

### Exercise

In the prior exercise, Tailspin Toys conducted a market analysis of the toy industry. Based on that analysis, the company decided to introduce a new line of outdoor toys. As a Marketing Program Manager at Tailspin Toys, you're tasked with creating marketing campaigns for this new line of toys. You decided that your first step is to use Copilot in Loop to help brainstorm ideas for marketing campaigns targeted at this new product line. Perform the following steps to brainstorm ideas using Copilot in Loop:

1. In **Microsoft 365**, select **Loop** if it appears in the left-hand navigation pane. If it doesn't appear there, then select **Apps**, and on the **Apps** page, scroll down to locate **Loop** and then select it.
1. In **Loop**, the **Workspaces** tab is displayed by default. You want to create a new workspace for this project, so select the **Create new** (plus sign) icon in the navigation pane on the left. In the menu that appears, select **New workspace**.
1. In the **Create a new workspace** window, you must assign your workspace a name. Enter **Outdoor toy line marketing campaign** in the **Type a name** field and then select the **Create** button.
1. You're now on the first page for your new workspace. The name of the page is currently **Untitled**. Note the page (**Untitled**) also appears in the middle navigation pane. In the main body of the page, select in the **Untitled** field and change the name of the page to **Ideas for Outdoor toy campaigns**. Note how the page name is automatically updated in the middle navigation pane.
1. In the **Use Copilot or** **just start typing...** field that appears below the **Ideas for Outdoor toy campaigns** heading, enter a forward slash **(/)**.
1. In the drop-down menu that appears, under the **Copilot** section at the top of the menu, select **Draft page content**.
1. In the **Copilot** window, a menu appears below the prompt field. The menu includes several suggested prompts, each of which starts with one of the following verbs: **Draft**, **Brainstorm**, and **Describe**. You can select one of these suggested prompts if they appeal to you. While you're interested in a **Brainstorm** prompt, you're not interested in the particular **Brainstorm** prompt that appears in this list. Instead, enter the following prompt and select the **Send** icon: **Brainstorm 10 ideas for a marketing campaign for a new line of outdoor toys**.
1. Review the generated list of ideas. Rather than having all the information in a paragraph or list form, you prefer to summarize it in a table. Plus, you also want Copilot to provide more specific details for each idea, In the **Copilot** window that appears, enter the following prompt in the **Rewrite with Copilot** field and select the **Send** icon: **That looks good. However, please rewrite the report by placing the information in a table and provide more specific details for each idea**.
1. Note how Copilot changed the formatting of the report. You now want Copilot to add another idea to the table titled **Supermarket store promotions**. To do so, enter the following prompt: **Add an idea for Supermarket store promotions**.
1. After further reflection, you decide that promoting outdoor toys in a supermarket is a lousy idea, and you no longer want it included in the list. So how can you undo what you just did? In the Copilot window, note how Copilot tracks each of your prompts below the prompt field. The prompts are displayed from the most recent prompt down to the first prompt, in sequential order. More importantly, note how each prompt includes an **Undo** icon. If you're unhappy with the results of a prompt, you can undo it to go back to the version of the draft before that prompt. Since you decided that you no longer want to include **Supermarket store promotions** in the table, select the **Undo** icon for that prompt.
1. After selecting the **Undo** icon, note how Copilot deleted the prompt and returned you to the draft following the second prompt that put the ideas in a table. At this point, you're ready to have Copilot sort the ideas from best to worst. To do so, enter the following prompt: **Please sort the ideas in the table starting from most effective to least effective**.

    > [!NOTE]
    >  Locate the **Sort** icon (the up and down arrows) that appears in the icon tray above the list of ideas. This option simply sorts the ideas in alphabetical sequence. You can perform the sort on either the name of each **Idea** or the first word in each **Details** field. However, it isn't based on the estimated effectiveness of the ideas, which is what you want, and what you requested in the prompt.

1. After reviewing the sorted ideas, you decide to make one final change. You want Copilot to replace the least effective idea with a campaign event titled **Seasonal Promotions**. You think it's a natural fit for a new toy line that focuses on outdoor products. To do so, enter the following prompt: **Please replace the final idea in the table with Seasonal Promotions**.
1. You're now satisfied with the list of ideas which you can later present to your marketing team. When it's time to present the list of marketing campaign ideas that you brainstormed with the help of Copilot in Loop, you can access the **Ideas for Outdoor toy campaigns** workspace that Loop automatically saved.
