# Consolidate multiple marketing reports using Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word
---
Microsoft 365 Copilot in Word is an AI-powered writing assistant that can help Marketing professionals create documents more efficiently. In a document with existing content, Copilot can help you transform the content. It can rewrite selected content or even transform selected content into a table. Copilot in Word can help Marketing professionals save time and effort when creating documents. It can help you generate content, rewrite text, and provide helpful suggestions.

Copilot in Word can help Marketing professionals in various ways, such as:

- **Creating engaging content**. Copilot in Word can assist marketing professionals in creating engaging content for their blog and social media.
- **Analyzing customer feedback**. Copilot in Word can help marketing professionals analyze customer feedback and engagement data to identify trends and insights. They can use this information to tailor future marketing strategies, resulting in increased online engagement and customer reach.
- **Generating marketing reports**. Copilot in Word can help marketing professionals generate reports on their marketing campaigns, including data on customer engagement, conversion rates, and return on investment (ROI).
- **Optimizing email communication**. Copilot in Word can assist marketing professionals in refining their email responses and strategizing customer engagement tactics, ensuring prompt and effective communication.
- **Preparing meeting agendas**. Copilot in Word can help marketing professionals prepare meeting agendas, ensuring that all important topics are covered and that meetings are productive, and outcome driven.

In this exercise, you use Copilot in Word to create a single report by combining three separate reports into one. You then use Copilot to modify the report with additional information.

When you use Copilot in Word to generate a new document, it creates a draft of the document. If you request that Copilot add or change something in the document, it regenerates a new draft of the document with the changes applied. You continue working in Copilot draft mode, where Copilot makes all the requested changes for you. Once you're satisfied with the latest draft, you select the **Keep it** button. Doing so changes the document from a Copilot draft to a Word document. Should you try to manually change anything when you're in draft mode, the Copilot window disappears. While you can select the Copilot icon on the Word ribbon to open the Copilot pane, the **Regenerate** option isn't available, since you're no longer working in Copilot draft mode.

### Exercise

As the Latin America (LATAM) Marketing Director for Contoso Beverage, a division of Contoso, Ltd., your product manager provided you with three separate reports involving the company's Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea beverage. However, you're finding it difficult to analyze the information, since you're constantly jumping back and forth between documents.

You decide to use Copilot in Word to combine the reports into a single LATAM Market Analysis report for Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea. Once Copilot creates this report, you want to review it and possibly update it with other information that Copilot can find on the Chai Tea market in Latin America.

Perform the following steps to create this market analysis report using Copilot in Word:

1. Select the following links to download copies of these reports:
    - [Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea product description](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2268929)
    - [Contoso Chai Tea market trends](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2269122)
    - [Promotion Plan for Chai Tea in Latin America](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2269126)
1. Once the downloads are complete, open **File Explorer** and move the files from your **Downloads** folder to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder.
1. In this exercise, you access the documents from the Most Recently Used (MRU) file list. To get the files to appear in the MRU list, open and close each of the three files in your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder.
1. Open your Edge browser (if necessary) and navigate to the **Microsoft 365** home page by entering the following URL: **https://www.office.com**  
1. On the **Microsoft 365** home page, select the **Word** icon in the navigation pane on the left. If the icon doesn't appear, select **Apps** in the navigation pane, and then select **Word** from the **Apps** page.
1. In **Microsoft 365**, open a blank document.
1. In the **Copilot** window that appears at the top of the blank document, enter the following prompt, but don't select the **Generate** button until after you link the three files to the prompt: **I'm the LATAM Marketing Director for Contoso Beverage. Please create a LATAM Market Analysis report for our Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea beverage. Combine the three attached files to create a report that describes the product, analyzes the market trend for it, and includes a promotion plan for Latin America**.
1. You now must attach the three documents to the prompt. In the **Draft with Copilot** window, select the **+Add content** button. In the drop-down menu that appears, if the **Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea product description.docx** file appears in the list of files, select it. Otherwise, following the prompt enter **/mystic**.  The **Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea product description.docx** file should appear. Select the file. Note how the file is displayed in the prompt.
1. Repeat the prior step for both the **Contoso Chai Tea market trends.docx** file and the **Promotion Plan for Chai Tea in Latin America.docx** file. At this point, links to all three files should appear in the prompt.
1. Select the **Generate** (arrow) icon in the prompt field. Upon doing so, Copilot extracts the pertinent information from the three files and drafts a report that combines them into a single Market Analysis report for Mystic Spice Premium Chai Tea.<br><br>After reviewing this first draft of the Market Analysis report, you recognize that it's missing some critical information. You would like to see it include a section titled **Competitive Analysis**. You want Copilot to analyze the competition. To do so, enter the following prompt in the Copilot window at the bottom of the report and then select the **Generate** arrow: **This is a good start. However, please add a section titled Competitive Analysis. In this section, analyze the current competition in the Latin American Chai Tea market. Compare key players in the industry, such as established brands and emerging startups. Focus on their market share, product offerings, pricing strategies, distribution channels, and any key differentiators. Additionally, identify trends or shifts in consumer preferences that could affect the competitive landscape.**
1. Note in the Copilot prompt window that it indicates this is draft 2 of 2. After reviewing this second draft of the report that contains the new Competitive Analysis section, you realize that one last thing is missing. You want Copilot to add a section titled **Distribution Channels**. This section should analyze the distribution channels used to sell Chai Tea in Latin America. To do so, enter the following prompt in the **Copilot** window at the bottom of the report and then select the **Generate** arrow: **Nice job! One last thing. Please add a section titled Distribution Channels. Review the distribution channels used to sell Chai Tea in Latin America and then provide information in this section on the types of retailers, wholesalers, and distributors used**.
1. Since this is the third draft of the report, note how the Copilot prompt window indicates this is draft 3 of 3. If you preferred one of the earlier drafts, you could select the back arrow to go back to either the first or second draft and then save that draft as your actual Word document. But in this instance, you're satisfied with the final draft. So, on draft 3 of 3, select the **Keep it** button to convert this third Copilot draft to a Word document.
1. Review the Word document. If you want to make any manual changes, you can do so now. Once you're satisfied with it, feel free to save the document to your **Microsoft - OneDrive** folder if you wish to keep it for future reference, or just discard it.
1. Close this tab in your Microsoft Edge browser.
